Welcome back.
Let's talk about another important concept immutability immutability means not changing the data not
changing the state.
Remember how an object oriented programming we had classes that while you can change the name property
the weapons of the characters that were building well and functional programming.
The idea is of immutability that is not changing state but instead making copies of the state and returning
a new state every time.
For example we have an object here a simple object with a name of Andre if I create a function that
clones an object and I'm using here a function that is pure we're not doing anything here except cloning
the object.
So no matter how many times I call this function it's going to clone.
It's a pure function but afterwards I go ahead and do object dot name and my program and update the
name to Nanna.
And as you can see here as soon as I do that the name gets changed to Nana and this.
Well this is mutating the state we're mutating data in our program in functional programming.
The idea of immutability is very important.
We can change things inside of our function but we don't want to affect the outside world in our programs.
And although this function is pure Well our program has a lot of immutability to it ideally if we want
to change the name we would create a function saying change name or let's do update name that receives
an object.
And in here we will have a new object let's say object to that we clone the initial object from that
we receive and in here we can do object to dot.
Name equals Nanna
and then finally we can just return object to let's see that in action.
If I console log the original object here and up here I'll do update.
Name and give it the initial object.
And I click run here.
I see that my original object which is Andre is still there but if I create a new variable here saying
updated object and I console log the updated object as well I see that there are two different things.
Now I've maintained immutability of not changing the state.
Just returning copies or new things every time a change is made.
Now you might be asking yourself this doesn't seem very memory efficient.
I mean this is a silly example but if we're just copying things over and over every time we want to
make a change.
Doesn't that just fill up our memory.
Now this is a little bit beyond the scope of this course but there's something called structural sharing
that when it comes to functional programming a lot of places implement and it looks something like this.
The idea behind it is that when a new object all or let's say an array or any sort of data structure
is created we don't actually copy everything.
If it's a massive object or an array you can see that being very expensive.
Instead of storing the entire copy underneath the hood what happens is that only the changes that were
made to the state will be copied.
But the things that don't change in memory are actually still there.
And this is called structural sharing.
This combined with the fact that in this day and age memory is fairly cheap.
It makes sense for some cases and functional programming where we have immutability because by having
immutability we can do some really interesting things that we're gonna see when we finish our coding
challenge from the beginning of this section.
We're simply saying Hey this data is not mine any data that I receive is not mine.
So I'm just going to borrow it and I'm only going to copy and make a new copy of this data so other
people can still use this.
It's kind of like kindergarten right.
If you played with a toy Well you shouldn't destroy you shouldn't change it.
You should play with it and then return it back to the school so that other kids can play with it to
let's take a break and I'll see you in the next video.